Here is an interesting English pronunciation tip. Good
morning, my friend.
This is Coffee with Kaizen #9, and like I said in the intro,
I'm just going to share a quick little interesting English
pronunciation tip with you that I thought could be helpful.
And that tip or this recommendation, let's say, is that you
pay attention to words that end with the suffix a-g-e.
A-g-e, because they don't all sound the same. So what I
noticed and what's really interesting is that if the word is
a one syllable word, and it ends in a-g-e, the a-g-e in that
word make an "age" sound like the word
"age" or "page" or "wage" or "rage" or "sage".
All of these words have one syllable, and the last three
letters are a-g-e and it makes an /ā/ (ey) sound: "age".
Now, if the word has more than one syllable, in many cases,
it makes an "edge" sound.
So let me give you some examples: savage, homage, leverage,
bandage,
luggage, average, footage, mileage, package,
cabbage, advantage, encourage, language.
So as you can see, in all of those words there...they're all
two syllable words and they all end with that same suffix -
a-g-e, but they don't make an "age" sound; it's more like an
"edge" sound. I'm not saying "savage", "luggage",
"language", "encourage", you see what I mean? The same
letters, different sound just because...I shouldn't say
because, but different sound, and it just so happens that or
coincidentally, they're words that have more than one
syllable. I don't know if that's the reason that the
pronunciation changes, but it's just something that I
noticed the other day that's really interesting. Now, there
are exceptions to this rule -- there are always exceptions
in the English language -- for example, "garage". "Garage".
Also a two syllable word that ends with the suffix a-g-e,
but it doesn't make an "age" sound; it doesn't make an
"edge" sound. It's an /ə/ (ah): "garage" or "camouflage" or
"sabotage".
Right? All of these have more than one syllable, and they
don't make the /ā/ (ey) or the [ɛ] (eh) sound. It's an /ə/
(ah), you see?
Now, one other interesting exception is "engage". Two
syllables, but it makes the /ā/ (ey) sound: "engage". It's
not "engage". It's not "engage".
"Engage". But all the other two syllable words on the list
that I gave you: "language", "encourage", "advantage",
"cabbage", "package", "savage". They're also two syllables,
but it's not an /ā/ (ey) or an /ə/ (ah); it's an [ɛ] (eh).
So, I don't want you to get too, you know, stressed out and
anxious about this whole thing, like, "Oh my God, this
pronunciation thing makes no sense. How am I going to learn?
How am I going to become fluent?" Don't worry about it.
Alright? Do not stress about something like this. It's just
an interesting detail that I noticed and something that you
can start to pay attention to in your daily conversations,
or when you're reading or listening to other people say
words that end with the suffix a-g-e. Okay? Cos at the end
of the day, like I said, the main thing that you can
remember or take away from this episode is that one syllable
words that end with a-g-e, almost every time, you're going
to pronounce it "age": "page", "wage", "rage", "sage", etc.
Almost every time. Now, words that have more than one
syllable and end in a-g-e, almost every time, it's an "edge"
sound.
Not an "age" or an "age", but most of the time it's "edge":
"homage", "footage", "package", "cabbage", "average",
"language", almost every time. Now there will be exceptions,
a few words here or there that don't follow that same
pattern, but that's okay. Alright? We'll almost certainly
still be able to understand you. It almost certainly won't
ruin the conversation. I hope and I imagine people won't be
laughing at you because you said "language" instead of
"language". It's no big deal. So don't stress about it. Just
a little piece of information for you that I thought might
be helpful. And maybe in your own studies, you can think of
some way to remember these patterns and even the exceptions
of those patterns. Alright? Cool. That's it for now, man.
Hopefully, like I said, I haven't confused you even more or
giving you more stress and anxiety on your language learning
journey. But if you have any questions or doubts, man, like
I always say, leave a comment if you're watching this on
YouTube or shoot me a message if you're just listening to
this, man. But that is Coffee with Kaizen #9 in the books.
So, I'll talk to you tomorrow. Peace!